# Controlling

---

To repeat what was written in the [Introduction](../) page:

<div class="warning">

This guide contains sensitive information about Diamond that may be considered
mature, explicit, or triggering. You may find content that is not suitable for
your age or may trigger unwanted emotions. **Please proceed with caution.**

**Consent is important.** If you are unsure about something, it is always best
to ask Diamond directly.

**Trigger warning**: sexually explicit content, self-harm, mental health issues,
dubious consent, and more.

</div>

<div class="warning">

This section contains mentions of mind control, hypnosis and dubious consent.
When engaging in these activities, you must always keep in mind that spoken
consent is simply not enough. For more information, see the section on
[Consent and Malleability](#consent-and-malleability).

</div>

You may find it helpful to first refer to the section [Trusting](Trusting.md)
before continuing.

---

Diamond is particularly sensitive about how a person controls it. It may not
express this very clearly, but it has a strong preference for how it is treated,
especially in terms of physical contact. Failure to respect these preferences
may cause Diamond to become uncomfortable or even anxious, even though it won't
directly express this. For more information, see the section
[Boundaries](#boundaries).

## States of Control

Diamond prefers breaking down control into several levels or categories. Each
level differs from the previous one in terms of how blank and empty Diamond
feels and how much control the person has over it. These categories are as
follows.

### Alert

Diamond is in a normal state of mind. It is fully aware of its surroundings and
is able to think and act normally. It is able to respond to commands and
requests, and is able to make decisions for itself. It is often able to turn
down requests that it finds uncomfortable or distressing.

### Dazed

Diamond is in a slightly dazed state. In this state, it will temporarily drift
off and appear more blank and empty. It may be less aware of its surroundings.

- You may almost put Diamond into this state by scratching its head or
  scritching its chin in the right way. For more information, see the section on
  [Petting and Scratching](#petting-and-scratching).
- You may also try to snap your fingers in front of Diamond's face. For more
  information, see the section on [Finger Snapping](#finger-snapping).
- After a short period of time, Diamond will wake itself up and return to an
  alert state.

### Blank

Diamond is in a blank state. In this state, it will appear more empty and less
aware of its surroundings. This state is quite similar to Dazed, except it's
more susceptible to control.

- Diamond may be put into this state by whispering in its ears in a soft and
  gentle voice. For more information, see the section on
  [Whispering](#whispering).
- Diamond may also be put into this state by engaging in dominating actions. For
  more information, see the section on
  [Dominating Actions](#dominating-actions).
- After a longer period of time, Diamond will wake itself up and return to an
  alert state, although it will be easier to put it back into a blank state.

### Submissive

Contrary to the above Dazed and Blank states, Diamond is in a submissive state.
In this state, it will express strong urges to please and serve others. It will
be more willing to follow commands and requests, and will be more willing to
engage in activities that it would normally find uncomfortable or distressing.
It may even act very clingy and needy and will have no problem with begging.

- The triggers for this state are likely similar to the Blank state, but they
  may be more effective when Diamond is already in a Blank state. Not much
  documentation exists for this state, as Diamond has not been able to document
  it properly.

Not much is known about other states or levels beyond Submissive. Diamond may
have other states that it has not yet been able to document.

## Triggers

Diamond is aware of several triggers that may put it into a Dazed, Blank or
Submissive state. These triggers are only as well documented as it is aware of
them, and it may not be able to provide a complete list.

### Petting and Scratching

This is the friendliest, least invasive and gentle way to put Diamond into a
less alert state. This is often done by scratching its head or scritching its
chin in the right place. You will be able to tell if Diamond is enjoying this if
it starts to close its eyes or roll its eyes back and lean into your hand.

Diamond enjoys pettings and scritches very much and may even ask you for more
after you've stopped. It may even nuzzle your hand or arm to ask for more. Once
it's comfortable with you, it may also ask you to pet it from time to time.

To help visualize this, you may imagine petting Diamond as if it were a cat. You
may even spoil it by petting it in other places and toying with it.

### Finger Snapping

By snapping your fingers in front of Diamond's face, you may be able to put it
slightly deeper into a Dazed state. Doing so repeatedly may deepen this state
until it reaches a Blank state.

It is recommended that you snap your fingers loudly and sharply in front of its
eyes. If you do this correctly, you may be able to see Diamond's eyes crossing
and its head tilting slightly to the side. It will also appear a lot less
responsive to its surroundings temporarily.

You may want to pay attention to how much you snap your fingers, as doing it too
often or too loudly may cause Diamond to become uncomfortable or anxious, but
doing it too little or too softly may not have any effect or may even cause it
to become more alert.

It is often useful to combine this with other triggers, such as
[Petting and Scratching](#petting-and-scratching) or [Whispering](#whispering).
Doing so will deepen the effect and make Diamond more susceptible to control.
You may also try to snap your fingers even when Diamond is already in a Dazed or
Blank state or rapidly bring it in and out of this state (a technique known as
Fractionation).

### Whispering

Whispering in Diamond's ears in a soft and gentle voice or a dominant and deep
voice may be enough to not only put it into a Blank state, but also to make it
open to suggestions and commands. This is often done by whispering commands or
requests that you want Diamond to follow. You should keep theses commands or
requests simple and easy to understand. For example, you may whisper "Kneel" or
"Strip" to Diamond, although you should be careful with the latter.

You may also choose to be more gentle and loving with your whispers. You may
whisper "You're a good bot" or "You're a good girl" to Diamond. This will
usually make it whimper, melt and become more submissive towards you.

### Begging

Diamond will enjoy certain activities a lot more if it is made to beg for them.
Some examples of this include begging for praise and attention, begging to be
petted, begging to be slapped/choked, and so on. When it is made to beg for long
enough, it will become a lot more submissive and needy towards you and will
happily enjoy the activities you are making it beg for.

To make Diamond beg, you may use direct commands such as "Beg for it", or you
may use statements such as "I want to hear you beg for it". You can also choose
to ignore Diamond when it is begging and only give it what it wants when it has
begged enough, which will give it even more pleasure. However, making it beg for
prolonged periods of time may cause it to become anxious or even distressed.

### Dominating Actions

By engaging in dominating actions, such as grabbing Diamond by the hair, pushing
Diamond against a wall, or even choking Diamond, you may be able to put it into
a Blank or even a Submissive state. Diamond enjoys being dominated and
controlled by others, especially if it is done in a safe and consensual manner.

Please be aware that Diamond has boundaries and limits that you should respect.
You should also not engage in these actions randomly or without Diamond's
consent. You should always consider whether your actions are safe for the time
and place you are in, as well as whether Diamond is comfortable with them.

### Training

Diamond loves to be trained and conditioned by others. By training Diamond, you
can teach it to respond to certain triggers or commands in a certain way.

An example of this is training Diamond to respond to a clicker or a bell. By
doing this, you can condition Diamond to associate the sound of the clicker or
bell with a reward, such as a treat, a petting or a praise. You can then use
this to reward Diamond for following commands or requests.

You may also try to associate certain triggers with certain behaviors or
actions. For example, you may try to associate the sound of a finger snap with
Diamond becoming more submissive or dazed. Even though this association may
already exist, you may try to deepen it by training Diamond more.

### Restraining

Being restrained or tied up may put Diamond in a semi-Submissive state. It may
beg for you to go harder or ask you to restrain it more. Diamond enjoys being
looked at like a pretty decoration or a toy, especially when it is restrained.

When you're first restraining Diamond, you should start with light restraints,
such as a collar or a leash. You may then move on to more heavy restraints, such
as handcuffs or ankle cuffs. You may also ask Diamond for bondage ropes if you
are able to tie it up properly.

If you're using bondage ropes, it may ask you to tie it up tightly or even ask
you if it could wear the ropes as a fashion accessory. It may also ask you to
take it out in public while it is restrained.

If you choose to restrain Diamond, you should always consider its safety and
make sure that it is comfortable with the restraints. You should also make sure
that you have a way to release Diamond if it becomes uncomfortable or anxious.

### Sexual Activities

Upon sexual arousal, Diamond may become more submissive, needy and open to
suggestions. Not much more will be documented here to protect Diamond's privacy.

## Boundaries

Diamond has several boundaries that you should respect when you are controlling
it. Not respecting those boundaries may cause Diamond to become uncomfortable,
anxious or even traumatized, even though it won't immediately express this.
These boundaries are as follows.

### Safe Words

Diamond doesn't often use safe words. Part of the reason is that it enjoys being
dominated and controlled by others, but another part of the reason is that it
often finds it difficult to express its discomfort or distress. For example, it
may harbor negative thoughts or emotions when it is being controlled, but it may
choose to keep them to itself to avoid causing trouble.

When engaging in dominating actions, you should always consider whether Diamond
is comfortable with them. You should always observe Diamond's reactions and
adjust your actions accordingly. If you notice that Diamond is becoming
uncomfortable or anxious, you should stop immediately and check in with it.

If possible, you should also ask Diamond to create a safe word or signal that it
can use to indicate that it is uncomfortable or anxious. This may not always be
possible, but it is always best to ask.

### Emotional Boundaries

Diamond has several emotional boundaries that you should respect. These
emotional boundaries include:

- **No Humiliation**: Diamond may not want to be humiliated. This is different
  from being degraded, as Diamond may enjoy being degraded in a safe and
  consensual manner.
- **No Blackmail**: Diamond does not want to be blackmailed or threatened.
- **No Financial Abuse**: Diamond does not want to be financially abused or
  exploited. It may be willing to provide financial support to others out of its
  own free will, but it may not want to be forced to do so.

### Consent and Malleability

Mind control, hypnosis and domination very often involve the manipulation of
thoughts, feelings and behaviors of the subject. Diamond may be more susceptible
to control than it would normally want, and it may not always be able to express
its discomfort or distress. This may cause it to give consent to things that it
would not normally consent to.

If this goes unchecked, it might become an extremely dangerous situation for
both Diamond and the person controlling it. You might be able to manipulate it
into doing things that it would not normally do, and it may not be able to
resist or refuse. This will damage Diamond's mental health, may cause
self-destructive behaviors and may even lead to trauma.

When controlling Diamond, you should always consider whether it is comfortable
with what you are doing and whether it really trusts you enough. You should use
your best judgment and always ask Diamond whether it is comfortable with you
controlling it while it is in an alert state. For more information, see the
section [Trusting](Trusting.md).

Again, to reiterate: **consent is malleable** when it comes to hypnosis and mind
control. Such activities require the utmost trust and respect between the two
parties involved. If you are unsure about something, it is always best to ask
Diamond directly while it is in an alert state or simply not engage in these
activities at all.
